[Music]
welcome to the breakdown we break down
all the messed up movies today we are
going all the way to paris to meet the
butcher
a sad sack of a guy who is probably
better off dead
that's what he believes anyway i stand
alone
directed by gaspar noe who also directed
irreversible
in fact the butcher the main character
in this movie had a cameo in that one
now this isn't as harsh it's
irreversible but we have a main
character who lives in his head
finding the central things of living
useless
he also hates the rich and he navigates
the streets of paris looking for a
butchering job
after many obstacles along the way
that sort of makes him seems admirable
but he's not he's
kind of trash okay so let's see how he
ends up
alone if you want to see what happens
including all the messed up parts
stay tuned for the breakdown cue to
gohan
[Music]
wow look it's france you know i always
thought france looked like shaggy
like did that look like shaky's head
morality
a product of the rich sounds like
philosophy class
all over again justice that's my little
sister's name
a gun and the upper chance that it gives
now let's get into the tragedy of the
butcher
trying to survive in france with
morality
and justice near the end whoever the
butcher is
he was abandoned by his mother at 2
years old his father was a french
communist
killed by the nazis he grew up a harsh
life
once being raped by a priest before
finally picking up the butcher life
over 15 years he butchers horse meat
and is finally gaining momentum in sales
soon he meets a girl and gets her
pregnant
who the mother abandons just like the
butcher's mother before
now it's just him and his daughter and
she is as mute as that guy you play as
in that 2001 game y'all know what i'm
talking about
years pass and she grows up and the
butcher starts feeling
attracted to her and resists
urges soon she has her first period
and we do have a pic of her underpants
but we don't need to see all that
of course she doesn't have a mother so
nobody told her about such a thing but
she goes to a father
and he assumes that she's been raped so
he corners some random
construction site worker and stabs him
the butcher goes to jail
and the daughter cynthia is placed in an
institution
now his whole life is ruined once he
gets out of jail
that's until he meets another woman and
moves to northern france with her
that's his life and now he announces
that
it's time to start over it's 1980
northern france
here's the women he drove off with and
they seem to have a
very boring life the girlfriend says
that this is the same side her father
used to sleep on
whatever that means the woman used to
own a bar in paris and
now they will work at a bar here to help
with living expenses the butcher will
work at a deli place
which is a bit easier than being a
butcher the butcher
doesn't like his new life here he's
honestly pretty
trash he tries to get a job at the deli
but he can't even put the effort in
to look interested so he's fired before
he's even started
but lucky him the girlfriend's mother
gets him a job
working as like a night watchman at a
place for the old and sick
and of course he's bitter about it
because now he can't watch
tv and so he works there for pretty much
a long time
but one time one of the nurses comes and
knocks on his window saying that an old
lady is suffocating
he goes to help her you know treat the
lady but
it turns out the woman dies now the
nurse she
has never seen death before i don't
think he has either but he just
doesn't care it's just something natural
right so he agrees to walk her home
and with purpose he wants to get in her
panties
but of course he doesn't go through with
it and ends up walking to
a porn cinema just thinking about his
failure
of getting into the woman's house now a
friend
of his girlfriend saw him walking with
that nurse
and she's gonna go back and tell his
girlfriend that he's cheating on her
but actually the closest thing he did to
cheating
is smash the be at a porn cinema
i wonder do they still have these kind
of things i'm i'm not asking because i
want to go
i was just asking because they just seem
let me shut up
so once he gets back home she thinks
that he cheated right and she's mad at
him
he didn't cheat but that doesn't mean he
wasn't thinking about it
still he overreacts and she tells him to
get out
but he starts beating her like bro all
you had to do
was tell her that you walked a nurse
home you don't even know
her name weirdo now i didn't mention
this before but
the girlfriend is pregnant and he's
beating
on her and punches her stomach which
most likely
kills the baby the mom makes the mistake
of
saying she's gonna go get the gun before
actually getting the gun and the butcher
attacks her
and takes it he decides not to kill the
two
and leaves the apartment as the mother
and daughter cry
about the baby that was a weird scene
especially how the mom just sat there i
think
that's the thing when you see something
like this sometimes you don't really
know what to do
it's like a battle between wanting to
keep composure and wanting to do
something
so i don't really blame the mom too much
she's just an old lady
so pretty tough scene and as he is
walking he mentions what he's going to
do now
he thinks the child is better off dead
and decides to go back to paris by
hitchhiking
he was prepared to take the truck if he
had to but now
he's on his way back listening to music
he'd probably rather not listen to
now it's the next chapter of his trash
heap life
he goes to an old flat he had a familiar
one
it's the room where he conceived his
first daughter's cynthia so don't be
surprised that someone whose mother
left him and the mother of his child
left them he's gonna have some
misogynistic
thoughts probably the most misogynistic
you could get
he's that he wonders how he'll get money
especially when his friends are nowhere
to be found
he has various interviews with people to
get a job but
nobody will accept him he goes to
attempt agency but
she says that there is no butcher or
daily work available
he goes out drinking that night and gets
hit on from a lady
fun for her might involve a lot of drug
use though sadly
it's awkward talking to her and she
talks about giving an exchange of energy
it's like she's a chemistry teacher and
so they get on with the weird chemistry
that was a weird prostitution scene
kinda touched me when she asked him not
to hurt her
that scene made me feel like i had a wet
rag wrapped around my heart
he later goes to ask for money from a
friend but he's struggling himself
the guy does say that he should fight
for his daughter
remember she is inside some institution
the guy's hands look like
jesus as he mentions he will always have
a bed and bread to give him
it's damn tough being poor starving
he saves his money and rests in his hot
place
hot meaning he doesn't have any ac you
know how hard it is to sleep
hot next day he interviews with butchers
but
times are hard for all of them and they
aren't accepting anybody
i'm really surprised the police haven't
picked you up yet i mean you did
murder a baby and now mr dickovich is
asking for rent but the butcher says
you'll get the rent once you fix this
damn door
seriously he goes for another job
interview this time with a professional
butcher company
the butcher once did contract work with
them
the interview is his best one yet but
the god
can't promise him a job at this time the
butcher just walks around
angry about it ridiculing his
interviewer for being gay
he knew about gay rumors from when he
worked with him before oh my god i'd
hate to live in your head
make me want to blow my brains out it's
a miserable existence that you have
just listening to him i hate his
thoughts but it does sound very
interesting
he hates france for being ran by
fruitcake queers
as he calls it the interviewer from
earlier is getting a lot of hate
and he plans on murdering him he wants
to kill him
and goes inside this bar to plan it out
and
to do more hatred overthinking he
imagines the entire interaction he will
have with his planned
victim he doesn't even have enough money
to buy a drink at the bar
and gets into an altercation with this
random guy
calling him an n word and the f word
well that guy is the bartender's son
so it's either get the [ __ ] out or die
it's a good pops a lot of fatherhood in
this february huh
trauma with that father son and now we
have bartender and son
it's cool the butcher leaves with
everybody
clowning him he's so embarrassed about
it that he goes around to get his gun
and hammers his own mind thinking about
what he'll do
he realizes he has three bullets one for
the bartender
his son and the interviewer he kicks at
the business of one of his targets but
either he isn't there
or he just ignores the butcher he leaves
after calling him
an f word again dejected he goes back
into his flat
to ponder his hate the rich thoughts his
miserable life intertwined with killing
the people he wants
to kill and how painful their death will
be
each zoom in on his mouth is him
shooting someone he hates
and then following it up with their last
words but he has nothing to say after
the last bullet
which is to say that he himself is a
victim
he's going to shoot himself next he
decides against it though once he thinks
about cynthia's
future he finally meets back up with his
daughter
cynthia she's still quite mute and
always has
been and the two take a walk they take
to the train and he thinks in his head
that world war
iii wouldn't be so bad if germany and
the people that he hates would disappear
he doesn't really know what to do about
his daughter and then suddenly we get a
30 second
timer to leave the screening of the film
that's
very interesting it's pretty unique but
is warning us of some things we probably
won't like
a danger screen plays next a warning for
something
i won't want to see
hilarious i'm sorry i'm sorry if that
peeked her hurt your ears but
hilarious do you know who i am i will be
the next disturbing king
i can't back out they enter his flat and
he is happy to see his daughter
but incestuous thoughts start to come
he's itching to do
something with her to say the least what
follows next is him
groping his daughter and then apparently
having sex with her
afterwards he shoots her unexpectedly
but yeah he's watching her bleed out on
the floor the police already knock on
the door and he just sits there watching
them
trying to break through it his thoughts
literally go rampant he's thinking
so quick and and just it's just crazy
makes me anxious even thinking about it
he's just he's literally just thinking
about what he's gonna do putting her out
of her uh
suffering what he's gonna do to himself
and all of that that must be like how
l thinks except he actually has logic in
his head he just
imagines blowing his brains out and goes
all over the room talking quickly and
annoying
finally he apparently shoots himself
but guess what it was all
just a dream all in his head of course
he had no reason to kill
his daughter that was previously
mentioned what a nightmare that was
though
after he puts the gun back in the closet
he hugs his daughter like he probably
should have at the institution
soon he starts bawling and she consoles
him
as he tells her please don't leave me
alone
i felt that i felt that i don't like him
but i felt that
loneliness you remember the girl from
audition
loneliness february and the beginning of
march is loki
the month of loneliness now that little
sad
moment may have been innocent but he
still does have incestuous thoughts
about his daughter
and he does fondle her that's how he
feels about her and she doesn't know any
better
he's happy to do what he wants now and
figures he has nothing to lose
the movie ends as he's thinking about
having sex with his daughter
it's fair to say that he did have sex
with her and went to jail for it
since years later he appears as a cameo
and irreversible i guess he didn't kill
himself
well that was a jarring film filled with
mostly
voice over and interesting thoughts from
the butcher
check it out yourself because there was
a lot i didn't mention but
i just gave you a gist it's well made
and follows the director's direction
plus it has some pretty unique
cinematography effects
let's talk about the most disturbed
moment emotion joy moment
and that's spooky stuff
[Music]
first i'd like to mention that paris was
very bleak in this film wasn't it
but that doesn't mean paris is very
bleak the director shows you the bowels
of paris and his vision
i don't like when people think like the
butcher instead of me focusing
on how the director portrayed the
butcher's inner thoughts
i'd like to imagine what it takes to
influence
50 years of despair to think about their
own life differently
moses third moment is a tie between when
the butcher beat his girlfriend
and possibly killed their baby and when
he shot his daughter in the dream
sequence
realistically it should be the beating
but the way the dream sequences was
edited
it was almost jarring almost reminded me
of that scene in irreversible where
you would see the insides of that
nightclub it was anxious listening to
his
rambles most enjoy moment is probably
seeing an idiot get kicked out of the
bar i dislike
when people blame other people all the
time
when things don't go right for him like
i get it it's natural
but sometimes you just have to sit and
be like you know what
this is my fault and that's it this
movie is directed by the same guy who
did irreversible so check that video out
but beware that movie has probably the
most disturbing sexual assault scene
i've ever seen at least for me on the
right is angst
a film that inspired the director with
another crazy character
that also thinks a lot in his head
thanks for watching
spooky out